most people picture mini is a car rather
than a brand but this is a mini this is
also a mini and this is a mini and now
this is as well say hello to the mini
paceman the original Mini had different
body styles but this time around it's
even more important mini has to become a
family and a successful one to survive
having a multitude of models all on the
same basic mechanicals helps the company
recoup development costs but if every
one of those seven doesn't have consumer
appeal then it won't work and of course
to where the mini badge it has to be
true too many qualities sporty driving
nimble funky and fun so is the paceman a
true mini let's find out
so the car I'm driving today is the mini
cooper s paceman at thirteen hundred and
five kilos it's not a light mini but the
1.6 litre turbocharged engine does all
right it's got 135 kilowatts more
important is 240 newton metres of
turbocharged talk so pretty much at any
Reds you can get some decent
acceleration one of the advantages of
the placements higher suspension is the
ride quality it's got a very smooth ride
you don't feel the bumps as much and for
noise quality it is quite refined I mean
let's not forget we're talking a forty
thousand dollar car that does feel like
a premium hatchback in the front it is
typical mini lots of character big bold
graphics in a big central speedo this
model I'm driving is pretty well
equipped with leather interior and sat
nav and the engine has a fuel-saving
stop start function but in the back is
where the paceman moves away from the
countryman most obviously it has two
bucket seats not a bench seat not a
particularly flexible or adaptable
arrangement but i suppose that goes to
the whole sportiness theme look I have
to say that I'm struggling to come to
terms with the placement and it's a
fundamental issue that I also have with
the countryman and let's be honest this
is a countryman with two less dollars
the bigger taller heavier body just
undermines the dynamics that I enjoy so
much in other minis and the higher
driving position just undermines my
perception of those dynamics I guess
that's what you give up for a little
more space look for what it is the
placement is a competent car with a
generous dose of mini cheek and
quirkiness and I like that about it what
I don't like is that mini Australia is
going to charge more for the two-door
than for the four-door countryman and
that just doesn't make sense it doesn't
sit well with me I guess we'll get to
see in March 2013 when it arrives how
that sits with consumers so the real
question with the mini paceman is
whether it lives up to consumer
expectations of the many brands and yes
it mostly does but there's no denying
that you do lose a little bit of that
dynamic DNA for the added practical
d